quick-start/points.md, before:

---
cover: ../.gitbook/assets/QuickStart.png
coverY: 0
layout:
  width: default
  cover:
    visible: true
    size: hero
  title:
    visible: true
  description:
    visible: true
  tableOfContents:
    visible: true
  outline:
    visible: true
  pagination:
    visible: true
  metadata:
    visible: true
---

# Earn Points

Alphix rewards early users with Points. Every interaction on the protocol contributes to your total.

### How Points Work

Points are earned through protocol activity:

* **Swapping** — Earn Points on every swap
* **Providing Liquidity** — Earn Points based on position size and duration
* **Referrals** — Earn bonus Points when referred users are active

Points accumulate in **Seasons**. Each season runs for a set period, with distributions happening weekly.

{% hint style="info" %}
Track your Points and ranking at [alphix.fi/points](https://alphix.fi/points)
{% endhint %}

### Referral Program

Invite others to Alphix and earn a **10% bonus** on their Points. Your referral link is available on the Points page once you've connected your wallet.

{% hint style="warning" %}
Referral bonuses are only available to eligible users.
{% endhint %}

### Why Points Matter

Points recognize early adopters and active community members. While specific mechanics evolve with each season, consistent participation is rewarded.

Commit message:

Fix audit claims, add Points distribution details, reorganize contracts page

quick-start/points.md, after:

---
cover: ../.gitbook/assets/QuickStart.png
coverY: 0
layout:
  width: default
  cover:
    visible: true
    size: hero
  title:
    visible: true
  description:
    visible: true
  tableOfContents:
    visible: true
  outline:
    visible: true
  pagination:
    visible: true
  metadata:
    visible: true
---

# Earn Points

Alphix rewards early users with Points. Every interaction on the protocol contributes to your total.

### How Points Work

Points are earned through protocol activity:

* **Swapping** — Earn Points on every swap
* **Providing Liquidity** — Earn Points based on position size and duration
* **Referrals** — Earn bonus Points when referred users are active

### Distribution Schedule

| Detail | Value |
| ------ | ----- |
| Weekly Distribution | 100,000 Points |
| Snapshots | Hourly |
| Season 0 Duration | 3 months |

Points are distributed weekly based on your share of protocol activity. Snapshots are taken hourly to ensure accurate tracking of swaps and LP positions.

{% hint style="info" %}
Track your Points and ranking at [alphix.fi/points](https://alphix.fi/points)
{% endhint %}

### Referral Program

Invite others to Alphix and earn a **10% bonus** on their Points — at no cost to the referred user. Your referral link is available on the Points page once you've connected your wallet.

### Why Points Matter

Points recognize early adopters and active community members. While specific mechanics evolve with each season, consistent participation is rewarded.
